Next we're gonna talk about
objects arrays and tuples,
so in JavaScript you're familiar
with creating an object for
something like a car that looks like this.
Right, you got to make a model
any air three properties.
The first two are strings,
the last one is a number.
We have an equal sign here,
that's the assignment, right?
And if we hover over this you can
see TypeScript is telling us what
the type of this value is.
So object types, just like objects,
are wrapped in braces, and
the key thing to look for is this colon.
That's how you know we're not
doing an assignment here,
an initialization of this property.
We're simply stating its type.
So previously in the last chapter when we
were doing colon date, this is something
very similar except we're describing
the type as an object type like this.
You can have field names here.
And then types that are you know the type
that you're willing to accept for
each field name.
Note that you don't need commas here you
can use semicolons if you want depending
on your preference for using semicolons in
other areas of your JavaScript code base.
But this is our first
example of an object type.
So we could create a function that uses
an object type to describe its argument.
Okay so here we're saying we
have a function called print
car we take an argument called car whose
type is this make model year thing.
And then we when we run console.log you
can see our autocomplete is telling
us these properties are available when
we hover over each of them you can see
make is a string, model is a string,
year should be a number, right?
So this is what lets us safely use
these properties within the function if
we did this We would say, flat tires is
not a thing on cars, so this is more value
that TypeScript is giving you, right?
You get to state up front
what this thing has, and
you will be alerted to any use of
something that's not defined on the type.
So we're getting an error saying car
is used before it's being assigned.
Let's just do this.
We'll set equal to my car.
And now the function's happy.
So TypeScript knows whether variables have
been initialized or not, and it will.
Warn you if you're trying to use
it before it was set to something.
So what if we wanted to introduce as
part of like an electric car feature.
We wanted to introduce the concept
of a charging voltage.
I don't have an electric car, but I assume
they have different charging voltages like
for fast charge and
slow charge something like that.
Let's pretend them right
>> 110 or 221?
>> 110 or 220, there you go.
So I'm just gonna take
this code block here,
this is the contents of
our function up top.
And I'm gonna replace
this one line with this.
So now I'm saying,
I think I left this here just so
we could hover over the type, but
we can do that just fine with it here.
So we can say if the car's charging
voltage is not equal to undefined.
Or we could write this as, if it's
equal to a number, you could do either.
Then we're going to add to this string,
what's the charging voltage?
And we'll do console log string.
But charging voltage is not there,
and we need to account for
the fact that not all cars are electric.
Charging voltage doesn't make
sense on a gasoline car, so
we need this to be an optional property.
And what we can do is add it here,
and we're gonna use It actually
copilot is super annoying today
we can use this question mark
to indicate charge charging voltage
like might be there might not be there.
And if we hover over that we can see
that if you if you believe this pipe.
In the tool tip where it says number
pipe undefined, if you think of that as,
or we use double pipe and logic,
logical Boolean operators here.
There's a potential that it's not there.
And the fact that we're checking on
it here, check this out number or
undefined, but once we make it
past this it's just number.
Once we make it past this check,
TypeScript knows that we've
sort of eliminated the possibility
that it's undefined.
And that lets us treat this as a number.
We'll learn more about this later.
But what we're seeing
here is a type guard,
which is sort of a condition that
has type implications, right?
The condition is we're using type of.
That's gonna work in regular JavaScript.
But TypeScript knows that this has special
meaning that pertains to the type of
charge voltage.
That's what makes it a type guard.
And then we see an effect
that is called narrowing,
which means an increased specificity
of type within this code branch.
We'll add braces here to make it
obvious fall within these braces.
Charge voltage is a number.
So we've made it more specific,
why do I say it's more specific?
If we think about our analogy of sets,
charge voltage,
the set up here the allowed values
of what all possible numbers
that you can create in JavaScript and
also undefined.
And in here, it's more specific
because we've eliminated undefined.
It's a smaller set.
It's a subset of the original.
So we've narrowed it down.
Only slightly, but
in a very important way that lets
us use this as a defined property.
So we can see here our
original function will work.
And if we pass in a charge
voltage that's fine too.
That's an optional property.
And by the way, the same thing
works on function arguments here.
This is gonna blow up the function here.
It's gonna be very unhappy,
but I can do this.
And now we're gonna be told Whoa, we don't
even know if cars here like you can't
just reach in there for
a dot make that's not safe.
Up here we'd have to say like,
if car or if yeah if not car.
No card to print, exit.
All right, and now down here we could say,
all right, well, we know the car is here.
We know the function exited in
the case where it was undefined.
This is another type card, right?
TypeScript knows this isn't just
any old Boolean, any old condition.
This is something that has meaning.
as it pertains to the type of car and
it knows that we return.
And so it knows well if you're down here
there's no question mark here anymore.
We've narrowed.
I'm gonna undo this cuz I
think examples down below.
Depend on this actually accepting a car.
All right, great.
So TypeScript does this thing called
excess property checking around objects.
And what we've done here is
we've added a color field.
To this, this car object, and
we're saying it's red and
TypeScript getting all angry at us.
It's saying object literal may
only specify known properties and
color does not exist in type.
And then it lists the type that we've
actually defined for the argument to
the print car function, so let's saying
we can only list known properties.
And you might wonder, why would TypeScript
prevent us from passing this in?
We're giving it everything
at once make model and year.
There's no charging voltage here, but we
don't need to provide that it's optional.
Why would it object to us passing this in?
And it has to do with.
There being no point to doing this.
Meaning, this is an object literal.
We have a field here, that is not
going to be used inside the printCar
function because the printCar is
typed like there's no color here.
So within the printCar function, you're
not gonna be able to reach for color.
Okay, so it's fairly pointless for
us to do this.
It's an excess property.
Now, if we wanted to,
we could take this and now pass it in.
And TypeScript is not going to object to
this because now there's a variable here.
And we can access color like there
is some scope where we can access
the color property and it's no
longer just this sort of this thing
that's just almost guaranteed
to be safely removable.
I have a question from chat.
>> Yeah, would this be the same thing
as if you use the spread operator and
spread it into the function as well?
It wouldn't check for the extra property
if you spread an object into there.
>> So that's a little bit different.
Let me address that with an example
here about the spread operator.
So, let's create a new function here, and
I'm going to make a little
section here in the notes, and
we'll call this, I see what you're
saying with the spread operator.
>> Yeah, if you spread my arms into there,
it wouldn't or just the object.
>> Well,
you'd still have to do like this, right?
The point here,
I don't think the spread operator,
let's try the worst the worst scenario.
>> It might be irrelevant,
to be honest, but.
I'm curious now.
Yeah, so here you go.
We've defeated TypeScript's
helpfulness here.
We've we've created a value here and
we've spread it into an outer object.
And yes, like TypeScript no
longer warns us about this.
Now, it's still the same problem.
There is nowhere because this is
an object literal, it's not a variable.
So we have nowhere like
in this scope out here.
We can access color,
we can't access it from within print car.
So this is like you're defeating
the helpfulness here, but
you're like this is a valid point.
This does not make the error occur,
but it's also like when you just take
an object like this and
spread it in It's kind of odd here.
Now, of course, you could do this.
I'm changing my opinion here slightly.
Let's do this.
So you need much more
sophisticated analysis here.
To figure out within
a spread statement here,
what's usable and
what's not usable, right?
We're not creating an object literal
in the simple sense anymore.
We're assembling an object like behind the
scenes, you can almost think of this as
like object assigned and
you're building up your object here.
Maybe one day,
TypeScript will figure this out, but
there's a lot more dynamic behavior here.
You could even, if you had
a function that returned an object,
you could do something like that, right?
And take its return value and spread it.
And so it's not as simple of an analysis
as just looking at a property and seeing.
All right,
this field you should get rid of.